GCP function instructions (#2091)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/docs/instrumentation/js/serverless.md

You should now be able to view traces produced by OpenTelemetry from your Lambda
function in the backend!

## GCP function

The following shows how to instrument [http triggered function](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/writing/write-http-functions) using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) UI.

### Creating function

> Login to GCP and select the project where your function should be placed. From serverless select Cloud Functions. Select create function and select environment. This example uses [second generation](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/serverless/cloud-functions-2nd-generation-now-generally-available). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Login to GCP and select the project where your function should be placed. From serverless select Cloud Functions. Select create function and select environment. This example uses [2nd gen Cloud Functions](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/serverless/cloud-functions-2nd-generation-now-generally-available). 
```

> Login to GCP and select the project where your function should be placed. From serverless select Cloud Functions. Select create function and select environment. This example uses [second generation](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/serverless/cloud-functions-2nd-generation-now-generally-available). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Login to GCP and create or select a project where your function should be placed. In the side menu go to _Serverless_ and select _Cloud Functions_. Next, click on _Create Function_, and select [2nd generation](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/serverless/cloud-functions-2nd-generation-now-generally-available) for your environment, provide a function name and select your region 
```

### Setup environment variable for otelwrapper 

> Add the environment variable `NODE_OPTIONS` with the following value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If closed, open the _Runtime, build, connections and security settings_ menu and scroll down and add the environment variable `NODE_OPTIONS` with the following value:
```

```shell
--require ./otelwrapper.js
```

### Select runtime

> Select Node.js version 16.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the next screen (_Code_), select Node.js version 16 for your runtime
```

const { SemanticResourceAttributes } = require ('@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions');
const api = require("@opentelemetry/api");
const { BatchSpanProcessor } = require("@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base");
const {
  OTLPTraceExporter,
} = require("@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http");
const { NodeTracerProvider } = require("@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node");
const { registerInstrumentations } = require("@opentelemetry/instrumentation");
const {
  getNodeAutoInstrumentations,
} = require("@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node");

const providerConfig = {
  resource: new Resource({
    [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: "<your function name>",
  }),
};

api.diag.setLogger(new api.DiagConsoleLogger(), api.DiagLogLevel.ALL);

const provider = new NodeTracerProvider(providerConfig);
const collectorOptions = {
  url: "<address for your backend>",
};

const spanProcessor = new BatchSpanProcessor(
  new OTLPTraceExporter(collectorOptions)
);

provider.addSpanProcessor(spanProcessor);
provider.register();

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    getNodeAutoInstrumentations(),
  ],
});
```

### Establish package.json

> Add following content to default package.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following content to your package.json:
```

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "@google-cloud/functions-framework": "^3.0.0",
    "@opentelemetry/api": "^1.3.0",
    "@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node": "^0.35.0",
    "@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/instrumentation": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-node": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/resources": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions": "^1.8.0"
  }
}
```

### Add HTTP call to function

The following code makes a call to the OpenTemetry web site to demonstrate an outbound call

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
/* index.js */
```

const functions = require('@google-cloud/functions-framework');
const https = require('https');

functions.http('helloHttp', (req, res) => {
  let url = "https://opentelemetry.io/";
  https.get(url, (response) => {
    res.send(`Response ${response.body}!`);
  }).on('error', (e) => {
    res.send(`Error ${e}!`);
  })
});
```
### Backend

> If you run OTel collector in GCP VM you are likely to need to create VPC access connector to be able to send traces.

Reviewer: Can you link to the docs for creating that VPC access connector?

You should now be able to view traces produced by OpenTelemetry from your Lambda
function in the backend!

## GCP function

This example shows how to instrument [http triggered function](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/writing/write-http-functions) using GCP UI.

### Creating function

Login to GCP selecting the project where your function should be placed. From serverless select Cloud Functions. Select create function and select environment. This example has been implemented using second generation. 

### Setup environment variable for otelwrapper 

Add following runtime environment variable NODE_OPTIONS and provide value 

```shell
--require ./otelwrapper.js
```

### Select runtime

> This demonstration used node.js 16.

Reviewer: Does this also work with other Node.JS versions? If so maybe add a short sentence about that.

Author: So far I have only tested using version 16

> ### Establish otel wrapper
> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Establish otel wrapper

Create a new file called `otelwrapper.js`, that will be used to instrument your service. Please make sure that you provide a `SERVICE_NAME` and that you set the `<address for your backend>`

```javascript
```

provider.register();

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    getNodeAutoInstrumentations(),
  ],
});
```

### Establish package.json
Add following content to default package.json

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "@google-cloud/functions-framework": "^3.0.0",
    "@opentelemetry/api": "^1.3.0",
    "@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node": "^0.35.0",
    "@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/instrumentation": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-node": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/resources": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions": "^1.8.0"
  }
}
```

### Add HTTP call to function
Below code makes call to OpenTemetry web site to demonstrate traffic

```javascript
const functions = require('@google-cloud/functions-framework');
const https = require('https');

functions.http('helloHttp', (req, res) => {

    let url = "https://opentelemetry.io/";
    https.get(url, (response) => {
           res.send(`Response ${response.body}!`);
      }).on('error', (e) => {
           res.send(`Error ${e}!`);
    })
});
```

### Backend

> If you run Otel collector in GCP VM you are likely to need to create VPC access connector to be able to send traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you run OTel collector in GCP VM you are likely to need to create VPC access connector to be able to send traces.
```

You should now be able to view traces produced by OpenTelemetry from your Lambda
function in the backend!

## GCP function

> This example shows how to instrument [http triggered function](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/writing/write-http-functions) using GCP UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following shows how to instrument [http triggered function](https://cloud.google.com/functions/docs/writing/write-http-functions) using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) UI.
```

### Creating function

> Login to GCP selecting the project where your function should be placed. From serverless select Cloud Functions. Select create function and select environment. This example has been implemented using second generation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Login to GCP and select the project where your function should be placed. From serverless select Cloud Functions. Select create function and select environment. This example uses second generation. 
```

> Login to GCP and select the project where your function should be placed. From serverless select Cloud Functions. Select create function and select environment. This example uses second generation. 

Reviewer 2: > From serverless select Cloud Functions

What does this mean? Is this a menu option?

"Select Serverless > Cloud Functions"

Same with other examples.

> uses second generation. 

What is second generation? Is there a link that we'd need to have?

Reviewer: @klempinen can you clarify what "second generation" is, you need to assume that people might not know this, if necessary a link to the google function docs would be enough.

### Setup environment variable for otelwrapper 

> Add following runtime environment variable NODE_OPTIONS and provide value 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the environment variable `NODE_OPTIONS` with the following value:
```

```shell
--require ./otelwrapper.js
```

> ### Select runtime
> Select Node.js version 16.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Select runtime

Select Node.js version 16.
```

> This demonstration used node.js 16.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select Node.js version 16.
```

### Establish otel wrapper

> Create a new file called `otelwrapper.js`, that will be used to instrument your service. Please make sure that you provide a `SERVICE_NAME` and that you set the `<address for your backend>`

Reviewer 2: > provide a `SERVICE_NAME`

Where in code would this go? I see this:

```
[SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: "<your function name>",
```

But that's proposing that we set the service name to be the name of the function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new file called `otelwrapper.js`, that will be used to instrument your service. Please make sure that you provide your function name as `SERVICE_NAME` and that you set the `<address for your backend>` in the appropriate lines.
```

```javascript
/* otelwrapper.js */

const { Resource } = require('@opentelemetry/resources');
const { SemanticResourceAttributes } = require ('@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions');

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

const api = require("@opentelemetry/api");
const { BatchSpanProcessor } = require("@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base");
const {
  OTLPTraceExporter,
} = require("@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http");
const { NodeTracerProvider } = require("@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node");
const { registerInstrumentations } = require("@opentelemetry/instrumentation");
const {
  getNodeAutoInstrumentations,
} = require("@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node");

const providerConfig = {
  resource: new Resource({

>       [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: "<your function name>",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [SemanticResourceAttributes.SERVICE_NAME]: "<your function name>",
```

  }),
};

api.diag.setLogger(new api.DiagConsoleLogger(), api.DiagLogLevel.ALL);

const provider = new NodeTracerProvider(providerConfig);
const collectorOptions = {
  url: "<address for your backend>",
};

const spanProcessor = new BatchSpanProcessor(
  new OTLPTraceExporter(collectorOptions)
);

provider.addSpanProcessor(spanProcessor);
provider.register();

registerInstrumentations({
  instrumentations: [
    getNodeAutoInstrumentations(),
  ],
});
```

### Establish package.json
Add following content to default package.json

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "@google-cloud/functions-framework": "^3.0.0",
    "@opentelemetry/api": "^1.3.0",
    "@opentelemetry/auto-instrumentations-node": "^0.35.0",
    "@opentelemetry/exporter-trace-otlp-http": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/instrumentation": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-node": "^0.34.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-base": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/sdk-trace-node": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/resources": "^1.8.0",
    "@opentelemetry/semantic-conventions": "^1.8.0"
  }
}
```

### Add HTTP call to function

> Below code makes call to OpenTemetry web site to demonstrate traffic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following code makes a call to the OpenTemetry web site to demonstrate an outbound call
```

> ### Add HTTP call to function
> The following code makes a call to the OpenTemetry web site to demonstrate an outbound call

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Add HTTP call to function

The following code makes a call to the OpenTemetry web site to demonstrate an outbound call
```

```javascript
const functions = require('@google-cloud/functions-framework');
const https = require('https');

> functions.http('helloHttp', (req, res) => {
> 
>     let url = "https://opentelemetry.io/";
>     https.get(url, (response) => {
>            res.send(`Response ${response.body}!`);
>       }).on('error', (e) => {
>            res.send(`Error ${e}!`);
>     })
> });

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
functions.http('helloHttp', (req, res) => {
  let url = "https://opentelemetry.io/";
  https.get(url, (response) => {
    res.send(`Response ${response.body}!`);
  }).on('error', (e) => {
    res.send(`Error ${e}!`);
  })
});
```

Just doing 2-space formatting here since that seems to be typical for JS (although I imagine in our docs we're not exactly uniform about this either)

```

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> ### Backend
> If you run OTel collector in GCP VM you are likely to need to create VPC access connector to be able to send traces.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Backend

If you run OTel collector in GCP VM you are likely to need to create VPC access connector to be able to send traces.
```

> ### Deploy
> Select Deploy in UI and await deployment to be ready.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Deploy

Select Deploy in UI and await deployment to be ready.
```

> ### Testing
> You can test the function using cloud shell from test tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Testing

You can test the function using cloud shell from test tab.
```

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
